TARGET_FILE: 已中一区top part2.pdf
DOI: 10.1016/j.compag.2024.109206
TITLE: Indicators to Digitization Footprint and How to Get Digitization Footprint (Part 2)

--- PAGE 3 ---
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 224 (2024) 109206
3
the objectives assessed by DF more comprehensively, but based on the 
characteristics that a good indicator should hold, as discussed by 
Meadows, D. H., the vast majority of indicators in these three categories 
will be screened out due to a lack of value and inappropriate content, 
but at present, due to the lack of practical examples of DF, the discussion 
of DF is still at an early stage ( Meadows, 1998 ). discussion is still at an 
early stage. In DF modeling, the set of DF indicators will be limited by 
the Context of DPU. The Context of DPU contains the hardware and VE 
of DPU, and in the data lifecycle, the data will pass through multiple 
DPUs. There is a lack of common indicators for these DPUs, so this paper 
only proposes some common indicators to elaborate the composition of 
the indicator set of DF. In the future, we still need to think and criticize 
DF and DF-LCA, and these formative ideas will lead us to more repre -
sentative and creative indicators. 
Under the DF-LCA framework and methodology, the indicators for 
evaluating a DF are derived from the DPU, which is conceptualized as an 
abstract logical entity responsible for data processing. The assessment 
begins with a topological analysis of DPUs within an information system 
to understand their data input – output topology. This analysis helps in 
identifying the output of a specific DPU and, consequently, the data link, 
or the life cycle of the data associated with that DPU. To ensure the 
comprehensiveness of this analysis, it ’ s crucial to trace the data lineage, 
which establishes the integrity of the data link before indicators 
collection from the DPUs in the network can commence. 
In the process of collecting indicators, it ’ s important to note that the 
set of DF indicators is influenced by the Context of the DPU, encom -
passing both the hardware and the VE in which the DPU operates. Since 
data traverses through multiple DPUs in its lifecycle, and each DPU is 
characterized by different hardware and VE configurations, the set of 
applicable indicators will vary across DPUs. Therefore, this paper pro -
poses a selection of standard indicators to exemplify the composition of 
the DF indicators set. 
Once the relevant indicators have been identified, they are collected 
and calculated according to the formulas prescribed in the DF-LCA 
framework. These formulas take into account the time and data di -
mensions pertinent to each DPU ’ s performance. In this context, an ’ in -
dicator ’ refers to a parameter that quantifies the performance of the 
DPU, while ’ metrics ’ denote the measurable and collectible data within 
the virtual or physical environment ( EDRO C ´esar TEBALDI, 2017 ). The 
methodology for calculating these metrics is outlined in Equation (1) . 
I = f
T , D
( U ( m | m ∈ U
M
) ) (1)  
where I denotes the elements of the indicators collection of the DPU, 
U ( m | m ∈ U
M
) denotes the set of metrics computed as metrics, I and m are 
correlated, T is the time dimension, and D denotes the data dimension. 
In the life cycle of data, the time dimension is the time experienced 
by the data in passing through the DPU, and the DF of the data can be 
obtained by collecting the metrics of the DPU within a limited time. The 
time dimension is determined by the type of DPU, which can be classi -
fied into continuous type and task type. The constant type refers to the 
DPU that continuously outputs or processes data, while the task type 
refers to the DPU that needs to be driven by tasks. The data dimension of 
the DPU represents the information of the data in the life cycle process, 
including the amount of data, the type of data, etc. By using the infor -
mation in this dimension, it is possible to get the data change process in 
the life cycle, and it is also possible to standardize the indicators based 
on the amount of data. 
The data volume-based standardization approach is an improvement 
based on the standardization approach in LCA, where a single entity or 
service is usually used as a standardized baseline, and by performing a 
life cycle assessment on it, information on the resources consumed, 
energy consumption, etc. over its life cycle can be obtained. For 
example, ( Berthelot et al., 2024 ) found that a generative AI service will 
generate up to 360 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per year for a 
given number of users through the LCA approach. This standardized 
approach allows for a uniform metric by which the resource consump -
tion of entities or services can be compared within the same category. In 
DF-LCA, it is also possible to obtain comparable indicators by moni -
toring the data dimensions and standardizing the indicators based on the 
amount of data. However, this process can lead to changes in the un -
certainty of the indicators due to the variability in implementing the 
different DF-LCA methodologies. Therefore, there is also a need to 
implement and analyze the specifications of the implementation of the 
DF-LCA methodology to determine its validity, gaps, limitations, and 
further objectives to support DF development. 
After qualifying the temporal dimension of DPU during the data 
lifecycle, collecting relevant metrics through monitoring devices in both 
physical and VE is possible. There are two primary forms of metric 
collection: real-time and average. In the process of metric collection, 
ideally, the metric of DPU is expressed as a function over time, and by 
integrating this function in the time dimension, the overall indicators of 
DPU in the time dimension can be obtained, and finally, the indicators is 
assigned to the output data volume of data dimension. The standard DF 
indicators can be obtained, as shown in Equation (2) . 
I =
∫
T
0
f [ m
1
( t ) , m
2
( t ) , ..., m
N
( t ) ] dt
D
(2)  
where m ( t ) denotes a metric function that varies over continuous time, 
and D is the amount of output data within the time dimension of that 
DPU. 
However, the detection accuracy of most monitoring devices needs 
to meet the standard of real-time collection of metrics, and the vast 
majority of the metrics are collected in discrete time. We can calculate 
the metrics in discrete time to finally get the indicators of DPU so that 
the computed hands will have some errors, as shown in Equation (3) . 
I =
∑
N
i = 1
f [ m
1
( i ) , m
2
( i ) , ..., m
N
( i ) ] ×
T
N
D
(3)  
where m ( i ) denotes the discrete-time varying metric function and D is 
the amount of output data within the time dimension of this DPU. 
In contrast, the average form of the indicator is a metric that cannot 
Fig. 1. Relationship of the three dimension Indicator. Performance includes 
MIPS, time data volume, floating-point computation, etc., energy includes en -
ergy consumption, carbon dioxide emission, etc., and value includes cost, 
profit, and time of use, etc. A denotes the performance indicator of the DPU, 
and B denotes the performance indicator of the DPU ’ s environmental impact. 
Q. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  

--- PAGE 4 ---
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 224 (2024) 109206
4
be monitored in real-time by the monitoring equipment. This may mean 
that the degree of change in the metric is slow. It takes a long period 
before the difference in the metric can be seen, such as the amount of 
data generated in the early agricultural trial fields, where the change in 
the amount of data may be captured by monitoring the amount of data 
change per year ( Pezzuolo et al., 2021 ). The indicators can be calculated 
for the average case by collecting the metrics over an average time, as 
shown in equation (4) . 
I =
f
 
m
avg 1
, m
avg 2
, ..., m
avgN
)
× T
D
(4)  
where m
avg 
denotes the metric of the average change within that time 
dimension and D is the amount of output data within that DPU time 
dimension. 
In addition to the two main forms of scalar collection, DF metrics 
include cost, profit, and accuracy. Such metrics directly reflect the sus -
tainable nature of the DPU VE, but cannot be collected by real-time or 
averaging of scalars, but using specific ways of collection and techniques 
(e.g., real-time statistics, etc.). Such as unit data cost, the cost contains 
hardware costs, software costs, operating costs, etc., which can only be 
obtained through the collection of one by one, rather than a function 
representation. 
3. Modeling 
3.1. Performance indicators 
The growing volume of data is one of the characteristics of the 
advancement of the digitalisation process, and the growth of the volume 
of data is not only due to the fact that there are more devices generating 
the data, but also due to the fact that the data output from the devices 
has higher quality and higher resolution. Generating higher quality and 
higher resolution data requires the device to have sufficient computing 
power, which is related to the performance of the device indirectly 
proves that the performance is stronger, so this study takes the perfor -
mance indicator as one of the indicators to evaluate the DF. From the 
DPU perspective, compute-centric metrics are the key elements to 
quantitatively describe the performance of DPU, such as FLOPS, MIPS, 
and so on. And from the data perspective, the indicators of data quality 
of DPU-generated data can also indirectly reflect the performance of 
DPU. Therefore, some common computational indicators as well as data 
quality indicators are summarised and proposed as performance in -
dicators for DF in the following. 
3.1.1. Million instructions indicator (I
MI
) 
Instructions can be basic arithmetic and logical operations that 
represent the basic commands for the processor to perform scheduling 
and computation. In VE, instructions are atomic operations that output 
data from the DPU, and by measuring the number of instructions, the 
computational power consumed in generating that data can be obtained. 
In computer architecture evaluation, the number of instructions per unit 
time is usually used as one of the indicators of processor performance, 
such as Million Instructions Per Second (MIPS) ( Cai and Zhu, 2015 ). 
MIPS is related to the semiconductor technology of the processor, not to 
the complexity of the computation, and reflects the raw performance of 
the processor. 
Although MIPS can be used as a measure of processor performance, 
due to its inevitable wide variation in non-homogeneous architectures or 
non-homogeneous workloads, MIPS cannot be used with relative con -
fidence in non-homogeneous computers; and it does not represent a 
measure of system power, and there are differences in accuracy; MIPS 
itself cannot compare the performance of two computers without as -
sumptions about parallelism and the amount of workload ( Richardson, 
1987 ), which led to the use of MIPS as a measure of performance Highly 
skeptical in the early days. However, in DF-LCA, the data runs in the 
same virtual environment. There is no need to worry about the MIPS 
difference of non-homogeneous computers. You only need to monitor 
the virtual environment to get the performance of the virtual environ -
ment. Through this indicator, we can obtain the performance usage of 
processing the data, thereby judging the efficiency of its performance 
usage. Therefore, this study uses this indicator as one of the performance 
indicators of the DPU. 
In DF-LCA, the logical unit that operates on the data will be 
abstracted as a DPU, and for the DPU that has a processor in the Context, 
it can use the MIPS value as a metric that reflects the performance of that 
DPU, and the formula for the number of millions of instructions per data 
for the DPU is shown in (5): 
I
MI
= f
T , D
( m
MIPS
)
=
m
MIPS
× T
D
(5)  
where m
MIPS 
is the MIPS metric of the microprocessor, and the m
MIPS 
of 
the DPU is determined by the processor in the Context, and the m
MIPS 
metrics can be obtained through benchmarking or SPEC databases 
( Danowitz et al., 2002; Henning, 2006; Huang et al., 2010 ). 
3.1.2. Floating point operations indicator (I
FO
) 
FLOPs (Floating Point Operations) is the number of times a 
computing device (e.g. microprocessor, graphics processor, etc.) per -
forms floating point operations (e.g. addition, multiplication, division, 
etc.), and FLOPS (Floating point Operations Per Second) indicates the 
number of floating point operations performed per unit of time, which 
can reflect the computational speed of the system, these two indicators 
can be used as a measure of performance efficiency and peak perfor -
mance, respectively ( Dolbeau, 2018; Dongarra et al., 2003; Goldberg, 
1991 ).The simple view is that the more FLOPS, the better. With the 
development of information technology, the computer ’ s performance 
shows a flying development; the outside world is generally more pur -
suing the Use of FLOPs as a measure of performance efficiency, which is 
widely used in computational science, image processing, machine 
learning, physics simulation and other fields. 
FLOPS will change depending on the ‘complexity ’ of the computa -
tional procedure. For example, multiplying two 4096 × 4096 matrices 
using plus AVX intrinsics will generate 337.812 GFLOPS in 0.41 s, 
whereas using Python will only generate 0.005GFLOPS in 25,552.48 s, 
so we can measure the FLOPS to determine the ‘complexity ’ of the 
programme, and thus evaluate its performance efficiency ( Leiserson 
et al., 2020 ). Therefore, this paper uses the number of floating-point 
operations per unit of data as an index to measure the computational 
efficiency of the DPU, which is a logical unit that operates on the data. 
The number of floating-point operations per unit of time can be obtained 
by collecting the number of floating-point operations per unit of data, as 
shown in the following formula (6): 
I
FO
= f
T , D
( m
FLOPs
)
=
∫
T
0
m
FLOPS
( t ) dt
D
(6) 
In the above equation, m
FLOPs 
is the number of floating-point opera -
tions of this DPU, and the number of floating-point operations of the 
DPU during the running time can be obtained by integrating or 
discretely summing m
FLOPs 
in the time dimension. In DPUs that perform 
floating-point operations, FLOPS can be collected by introducing rele -
vant modules ( Swall0w, 2018 ), or FLOPS of device DPUs can be 
collected by monitoring software ( Grafana documentation, 2024 ). 
3.1.3. Data speed indicator (I
DS
) 
In the DF perspective, the rate of data generation is reflected in the 
efficiency of the virtual environment in generating data, which is an 
overall metric by which the rate at which the virtual environment 
consumes resources can be obtained. An individual component may 
Q. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  

--- PAGE 5 ---
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 224 (2024) 109206
5
generate thousands of data at any time; for example, when performing 
floating point operations, the computer ’ s high-speed cache will 
constantly store and release data ( Robinson and Devarakonda, 1990 ); 
however, these data cannot be used as the final output of the computer. 
The data generated by the DPU will occupy the storage resources in 
the virtual environment; if this data is generated too fast, the storage 
resources of the virtual environment will be limited, which directly af -
fects the storage performance of the DPU, using data speed as a measure 
of the DPU performance can assess the sustainability of the virtual 
environment. Simply put, this is similar to warehouse management; too 
fast in the warehouse speed will reduce the warehouse storage and may 
cause congestion in the warehouse, thus reducing efficiency. Data speed 
represents the speed of DPU output data, which is calculated by unit 
monitoring time T, as shown in Equation (7) . The amount of data 
generated by the VE over time can be obtained through this formula. 
I
DS
= f
D , T
( m
DV
)
=
m
DV
T
(7)  
where I
DS 
denotes the speed at which this DPU generates data, and m
DV 
is the size of the data volume output by this DPU. Since the vast majority 
of monitoring devices do not monitor the data generation speed in real 
time, we denote I
DS 
by calculating the average data generation speed of 
the DPU. 
3.1.4. Effort rate 
Effort, in the context of DPU, measures the computational resources 
(both computation and storage) utilized to complete a data task. 
Drawing a parallel from the natural environment, where a worker ’ s 
effort can be assessed through work intensity and work time, the DPU ’ s 
effort can similarly be gauged. In this analogy, the “ work intensity ” and 
“ work time ” of the DPU correspond to the complexity of the task and the 
duration of the DPU ’ s operation to output data, respectively ( Leiserson 
et al., 2020 ). A high Effort rating indicates substantial use of the 
Computing Unit and Storage Unit within the DPU, which may impact the 
DPU ’ s future processing performance. Therefore, Effort is selected as 
one of the key performance indicators for DPU. 
Computing Unit = { CPU, GPU, NPU, TPU … } refers to the set con -
sisting of processors, and Storage Unit refers to the set consisting of 
memories in DPUs, which can be expressed as Storage Unit = {memory, 
graphics memory, … }. Based on the above concepts, this study defines 
the total amount of actual composite work of the DPU as Effort.. In 
performance engineering research, the execution of the same compu -
tational task in different programming languages can result in varying 
“ working time ” and “ work intensity. ” This variation is attributable to the 
complexity of the language used and its impact on the CPU ’ s workload 
and intensity. 
However, the total effort exerted by a DPU cannot be directly 
quantified solely through time or intensity. By integrating the “ work 
intensity ” of both the computation unit and the storage unit over the 
“ work time, ” one can derive the total amount of work completed by 
these units within a given period. This approach leads to a more 
comprehensive understanding of the DPU ’ s workload. Formula (8) in 
the study then provides a method for calculating the Effort rate of a DPU: 
I
Effort rate
= f
D , T
 
m
c
, m
s
, m
cp
, m
sp
, m
pa
)
=
∫
T
0
a × f ( m
c
( t )) + b × f ( m
s
( t )) dt
D
=
∫
T
0
m
cp
m
pa
× f ( m
c
( t )) +
m
sp
m
pa
× f ( m
s
( t )) dt
D
(8) 
In the above equation, f ( m
c
( t )) denotes the computing unit uti -
lisation as a function of time, f ( m
s
( t )) denotes the storage unit utilisation 
as a function of time, m
c 
denotes the computing unit utilisation, and m
s 
denotes the storage unit utilisation, which can be collected by the 
monitoring equipment. a and b denote the weights of the computation, 
which are calculated by the computing unit ’ s or the storage unit ’ s power 
m
P 
than the total power denoted by the power machine, which can be 
collected by the power machine, for the unit data Effort indicator. The 
total power m
pa 
denotes that the power is able to be collected through 
the power machine. I
Effort rate 
is the Effort indicator per unit of data. 
3.1.5. Accuracy 
Accuracy refers to the correctness of the prediction or classification 
task. For the DPU of prediction or classification task, the accuracy rate 
reflects the accuracy of the output data of the DPU; the higher the ac -
curacy, the better the DPU can complete the prediction or classification 
task. Accuracy and performance have always been a contradiction that 
needs to be balanced in computing ( Cooper et al., 2021 ); in DF-LCA, we 
need to assess the sustainability of the virtual environment, which 
means we need to compare the accuracy with the sex and even the 
performance efficiency, so that we can assess the sustainability of the 
programme or task. Therefore, in this study, accuracy is used as one of 
the performance metrics to describe the DPU. 
Common methods for calculating the accuracy rate include Confu -
sion Matrix, Mean Magnitude Relative Error (MMRE) and so on ( Luque 
et al., 2019, Kitchenham et al., 2001 ). Among them, the confusion 
matrix calculates the accuracy rate by comparing the proportion of true 
negatives and true positives in all classification tasks, and the mathe -
matical formula is shown below: 
I
CM
=
TP + TN
TP + TN + FP + FN
(9)  
where True positive (TP) refers to the number of correctly classified or 
predicted positive categories, True negative (TN) refers to the number of 
correctly classified or predicted negative categories, False positive (FP) 
refers to the number of incorrectly classified or predicted positive cat -
egories, and False negative (FN) refers to the number of incorrectly 
classified or predicted negative categories. 
MMRE is a measure of the accuracy of a prediction model, where the 
accuracy of a single prediction can be expressed as the relative error 
between the predicted value and the true value, and the smaller the 
value is, the more accurate the prediction result is. While MMRE rep -
resents the prediction rate of the whole task, the accuracy of the pre -
diction task is evaluated by adding up the absolute errors of all the 
predictions. According to fomula, the mathematical formula of MMRE is 
shown below: 
I
MMRE
=
∑
| Actual   Predicition |
Actual
N
(10)  
where Actual is the actual measured value, Predicition is the predicted 
value and N is the total number of predictions. 
3.2. Energy indicators 
The energy indicators of DF refer to the energy consumed by the DPU 
and the environmental impact (e.g., CO2 emissions). At the intersection 
of the AI field and the energy field, AI and machine learning be trans -
formative ( Ohalete et al., 2023; Entezari et al., 2023 ), for example, 
( Balasubramaniam et al., 2023 ) and others have designed models 
through energy sensing that make car charging to become more effi -
cient. However, it is questionable whether the great success achieved in 
this field will be able to compensate for the huge energy demand in the 
future, in that despite the increasing energy efficiency of ICT hardware, 
the total energy demand of the installed hardware base is still growing 
( Hilty et al., 2009 ). Therefore, in this study, energy indicators are used 
as indicators to assess DF to judge IS ’ energy efficiency. 
All types of DPUs need to be powered by electricity, and by moni -
toring the power of DPU devices, the energy consumption in the time 
dimension can be calculated as follows in Equation (11) : 
Q. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  

--- PAGE 6 ---
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 224 (2024) 109206
6
I
EC
= f
T , D
( m
p
)
=
∫
T
0
m
p
( t ) dt
D
(11)  
where m
p 
denotes the power of the DPU, which can be obtained by 
monitoring through hardware and software. In monitoring systems, 
there exist dashboards that monitor the power, and in addition to this, 
the energy consumption of the device can be predicted by the perfor -
mance of the device ( Kawaguchi and Yachi, 2015; Grafana documen -
tation, 2024 ). In real world environments, it is also possible to check the 
power of the equipment by means of a dynamometer. 
In addition to this, we should be concerned about carbon emissions, 
as the energy composition of regions or countries varies due to geog -
raphy, which leads to different carbon intensities in different regions or 
countries. Carbon intensity is defined as the number of grams of carbon 
dioxide (CO2) emitted by generating one kilowatt hour (kWh) of elec -
tricity, and is related to the energy composition of the region ( L series, 
2023 ). In the process of IT development, we should consider whether to 
move services or data centres that consume more energy to regions or 
countries with low carbon intensity, in order to help the world become 
carbon neutral and achieve the goal of sustainable development. Carbon 
emissions can be calculated from carbon intensity and energy con -
sumption, and the formula for A is as follows: 
I
CE
= m
c
× I
EC
(12)  
where m
c 
denotes the carbon intensity of the DPU, which can be 
calculated from the local energy composition, in addition to the DPU ’ s 
ability to track the carbon dioxide produced by the DPU ’ s calculations 
through online calculators, packages, and libraries ( Lannelongue et al., 
2021; Lannelongue and Inouye, 2023 ). 
3.3. Value indicators 
The market usually determines the value of data, but the process of 
generating value from data is through the continuous processing of data, 
which ultimately results in valuable data; as Fernandez R C says: “ Data is 
the oil, and like oil, it creates great value for individuals and organiza -
tions that know how to mine and refine it ” ( Fernandez et al., 2002 ). In 
IS, data undergoes the process of digging deeper and deeper. We can get 
a picture of how data is generated and processed through the data 
lifecycle. By quantifying the cost and profit of the data generation pro -
cess, the value of the data can be obtained, which in turn indicates that 
the data output from the DPU is more valuable and ultimately provides 
decision support for the sustainability of VE. Hence, this paper takes the 
cost and profit as indicators of the DPU. 
Cost and profit are two essential concepts in business. In the life cycle 
of data, cost represents the expenditure of monetary resources spent on 
generating that data, including hardware costs, software costs, and 
operational costs. According to Equation (1) , the costs that make up the 
data life cycle are allocated to the unit of data to be able to get the cost 
per unit of data, as shown in Equation (13) : 
I
CPD
= f
T , D
( m
Cost
)
=
m
Cost
D
(13)  
where m
Cost 
denotes the amount of money spent to run the VE, which 
usually includes labour costs, equipment costs, etc. 
By comparing the cost per unit of data with the cost of data in the 
market, it is possible to get a comparison of whether the data lifecycle 
process is sustainable or not, e.g., in sensor networks, by the different 
ways of deploying the sensor network, it is possible to get the deploy -
ment scenarios with additional costs, and decision-makers tend to 
choose the sensor network scenario with low cost and extensive output 
data, because it means that more information will be available to sup -
port decision making. 
In the life cycle of data, profit can represent the value provided by the 
data or the profit generated by the corresponding information system. 
Through profit, we can get the value generated by that data or infor -
mation system, which directly reflects the sustainability of the VE. Ac -
cording to the indicator formula, the formula of profit per unit of data is 
shown in equation (14) . 
I
PPD
= f
T , D
( m
Profit
)
=
m
Profit
D
=
m
Cost
× m
ROI
D
(14)  
where m
Profit 
is the profit (from company statements) generated by the 
data or this information system, and m
ROI 
denotes the corresponding 
return on investment, Return on Investment (ROI) is one of the most 
commonly used performance metrics and evaluation metrics in business 
analysis ( Jacobson, 1987 ). 
The cost of data as well as the time dimension of its value is difficult 
to measure since it is difficult to predict how long the data will be useful. 
Moreover, data may become meaningless in the moment after it may be 
adopted for decision making, but in fact, these meaningless data can still 
provide more valuable information when aggregated. Therefore, when 
assessing the value, it is necessary to qualify the time dimension in order 
to completely describe the amount of data generated by the whole sys -
tem and the value of the data generated. 
In addition to using data cost as well as profit as the value dimension 
of sustainability, in VE we are able to describe the overall sustainability 
of the VE by measuring the impact it has on the VE throughout the cycle 
as an indicator of the overall sustainability of the VE. For example, in 
wireless sensor networks, the lifecycle of a sensor node is the time when 
the node ’ s battery runs out and it dies, and in the communication se -
lection strategy of the sensor network, it is necessary to try to use energy 
efficiently to allow the node to forward or to generate as much infor -
mation as possible. Similarly, corresponding to VE, the virtual envi -
ronmental impacts generated in VE (amount of data, number of 
calculations, number of forwards) can be linked to the life cycle of VE, 
and the sustainability of VE is described by measuring the VE impacts 
throughout the cycle as shown in Eq. (15) : 
I
VES
= f
 
I , m
period
)
(15)  
where I
DS 
denotes the average speed of data volume generation and 
m
Period 
denotes the time used by the DPU. 
In real life, the life cycle of a VE can be affected by human decision- 
making willingness, the capacity of the VE, failures, and other factors. 
Under the influence of these factors, the VE will be upgraded or 
migrated; in this case, we represent the capacity of the overall VE by 
allocating the overall VE impact evenly to each upgrade or migration. 
Sustainability is related to the cost of the VE, so in this paper, we allocate 
the capacity of the overall VE to the cost of the VE as a measure of the 
sustainability of the VE, as shown in Equation (16) : 
I
VES
=
∑
N
i = 1
I
DS
( i )× m
Period
( i )
m
Cost
N
(16)  
where N denotes the number of times the DPU has been updated or 
migrated, and N is 1 when the DPU has not been migrated or updated. 
3.4. Database use and design 
The DPU database is a collection of inventory analyses. By per -
forming indicator search on the DPU data ’ s, the indicators of the DPU 
can be quickly obtained for the evaluation of DF. However, there is no 
unified database, to address this problem, this paper proposes a database 
design method for DPUs. 
In LCA, the LCA database collects and integrates life cycle data of 
Q. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  

--- PAGE 9 ---
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 224 (2024) 109206
9
the indicators in the database can be used directly, reducing the cost of 
data collection. The indicator is a standardized DPU indicator; if the 
current standardized DPU has been upgraded or improved due to the 
change in the Context of this DPU, it is necessary to re-collect the in -
dicator for the DPU and update the database. This is a continuous 
updating process through the collection of indicators and Context for a 
comprehensive record to ensure the unity of the operation of the DPU 
indicator database; DPU indicator collection process is shown in Fig. 5 . 
Wherein, the DPU exists in a VE, for which the metrics are collected 
through a monitoring device in the VE, and for which the metrics are 
collected through a monitoring device in the physical environment. 
4. Conclusions and outlook 
In this paper, we sort out the performance, energy, and value di -
mensions proposed by DF-LCA and summarise and propose a standard 
set of indicators to measure the capacity and capability of VE. For the 
performance capacity of VE, this paper combs through the standard 
indicators of computing capacity. It proposes a composite indicator of 
Effort rate based on the relationship between the usage rate of devices 
and computing tasks. For the energy of the VE, this paper analyses the 
impact of VE energy on sustainability. It introduces carbon dioxide 
emissions into the energy indicators of the VE. For the value of VE, this 
paper discusses the cost and profit of VE and proposes sustainability 
indicators based on the capacity of VE. We found that these generic 
indicators can only be used as the initial indicators for establishing a DF 
indicator system, and with the development of DF, these generic in -
dicators may not have the conditions to become DF indicators, but they 
can still be used as the basis for the initial DF research. In the future, we 
will analyze indicators for VE in various domains and integrate them 
into the DPU database. 
This study also makes suggestions for the use and construction of the 
DF-LCA database based on the database establishment method of LCA. 
Currently, the LCA database has a relatively mature system under which 
LCA databases of many industries have been established. The system is 
also applicable to DF-LCA in terms of methodology. Hence, this paper 
combines the system with the VE to carry out the construction and 
ontology design of DF-LCA database. Moreover, because there is no 
actual case of DF-LCA, this paper simulates the real situation and ex -
plains the use of DF-LCA database. 
The digital sustainability issue has been gradually advanced in the 
public eye. With the advancement of the digitalization process, energy 
consumption will become a significant issue for ICT. Meanwhile, cases of 
assessing the energy consumption of AI through the LCA method have 
already appeared, which suggests that it is a feasible approach to address 
the issue of digital sustainability from an interdisciplinary point of view. 
However, this research is still in the developmental stage, and further 
integration of LCA with the characteristics of ICT is needed to develop 
digital sustainability from an interdisciplinary perspective. On the other 
hand, DF-LCA is an improved LCA approach in IS, which can provide a 
complete assessment architecture. However, at present, DF-LCA is still in 
the early stage of development. However, there are few examples of its 
application at present, according to the anticipation, it can effectively 
assess the sustainability of VE and provide a new solution for digital 
sustainability by conducting life cycle analysis of IS. 
CRediT authorship contribution statement 
Qiang Huang: Writing – original draft, Resources, Funding acqui -
sition, Conceptualization. Xu Wang: Writing – original draft, Visuali -
zation, Conceptualization. Qi Gao: Writing – review & editing, 
Conceptualization. Alberto. Carraro: Writing – review & editing. 
Marco Sozzi: Writing – review & editing. Francesco Marinello: 
Writing – review & editing. 
Declaration of competing interest 
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence 
the work reported in this paper. 
Fig. 4. DPU database construction among other things, the content of the context of this DPU contains as shown in Table 2 .  
Fig. 5. Methodology for the use of database indicators.  
Q. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  

--- PAGE 10 ---
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 224 (2024) 109206
10
Data availability 
The authors are unable or have chosen not to specify which data has 
been used. 
Acknowledgements 
Part of this study was carried out within the Agritech National 
Research Center and received funding from the European Union Next- 
GenerationEU (PIANO NAZIONALE DI RIPRESA E RESILIENZA 
(PNRR) – MISSIONE 4 COMPONENTE 2, INVESTIMENTO 1.4 – D.D. 
1032 17/06/2022, CN00000022). This manuscript reflects only the 
authors ’ views and opinions, neither the European Union nor the Eu -
ropean Commission can be considered responsible for them. 
References 
Amahmoud, A., El Attar, M.M., Meleishy, A., 2022. The evolution of life cycle assessment 
approach: a review of past and future prospects. In: IOP Conference Series: Earth and 
Environmental Science, Vol. 992, No. 1. IOP Publishing, p. 012002. https://doi.org/ 
10.1088/1755-1315/992/1/012002 . 
Balasubramaniam, S., Syed, M.H., More, N.S., Polepally, V., 2023. Deep learning-based 
power prediction aware charge scheduling approach in cloud based electric 
vehicular network. Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell. 121, 105869 https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
engappai.2023.105869 . 
Berthelot, A., Caron, E., Jay, M., Lef `evre, L., 2024. Estimating the environmental impact 
of Generative-AI services using an LCA-based methodology. Procedia CIRP 122, 
707 – 712. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procir.2024.01.098 . 
Cai, L., Zhu, Y., 2015. The challenges of data quality and data quality assessment in the 
big data era[J]. Data Sci. J. 14. https://doi.org/10.5334/dsj-2015-002 . 
Cooper, A.F., Levy, K., De Sa, C., 2021. Accuracy-efficiency trade-offs and accountability 
in distributed ML systems. In: Proceedings of the 1st ACM Conference on Equity and 
Access in Algorithms, Mechanisms, and Optimization (pp. 1-11). https://doi.org/1 
0.1145/3465416.3483289 . 
Danowitz, A., Kelley, K., Mao, J., Stevenson, J.P., Horowitz, M., 2002. Recording 
microprocessor history. ACM Queue Magazine 10 (4). https://doi.org/10.1145/ 
2181796.2181798 . 
Dervishaj, A., Gudmundsson, K., 2024. From LCA to circular design: a comparative study 
of digital tools for the built environment. Resour. Conserv. Recycl. 200, 107291 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.resconrec.2023.107291 . 
Dolbeau, R., 2018. Theoretical peak FLOPS per instruction set: a tutorial. 
J. Supercomput. 74 (3), 1341 – 1377. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11227-017-2177-5 . 
Dongarra, J.J., Luszczek, P., Petitet, A., 2003. The LINPACK benchmark: past, present 
and future. Concur. Computat.: Pract. Exp. 15 (9), 803 – 820. https://doi.org/ 
10.1002/cpe.728 . 
EDRO C
´
ESAR TEBALDI. (2017). What are the main differences between metrics and 
indicators?. https://www.opservices.com/differences-between-metrics-and-in 
dicators/ engineering workshops (ICDEW 2010) (pp. 41-51). IEEE. 
Entezari, A., Aslani, A., Zahedi, R., Noorollahi, Y., 2023. Artificial intelligence and 
machine learning in energy systems: a bibliographic perspective. Energ. Strat. Rev. 
45, 101017 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.esr.2022.101017 . 
Fernandez, R.C., Subramaniam, P., Franklin, M.J., 2002. Data market platforms: trading 
data assets to solve data problems[J]. arXiv preprint arXiv:2002.01047, 2020. htt 
ps://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2002.01047 . 
Frischknecht, R., Jungbluth, N., Althaus, H.J., Doka, G., Dones, R., Heck, T., 
Spielmann, M., 2005. The ecoinvent database: overview and methodological 
framework (7 pp). Int. J. Life Cycle Assess. 10, 3 – 9 . 
George, G., Merrill, R.K., Schillebeeckx, S.J., 2021. Digital sustainability and 
entrepreneurship: How digital innovations are helping tackle climate change and 
sustainable development. Enterp. Theory Pract. 45 (5), 999 – 1027. https://doi.org/ 
10.1177/1042258719899425 . 
Goldberg, D., 1991. What every computer scientist should know about floating-point 
arithmetic. ACM Comput. Surv. (CSUR) 23 (1), 5 – 48. https://doi.org/10.1145/ 
103162.103163 . 
Grafana documentation, 2024. https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/ . 
Henning, J.L., 2006. SPEC CPU2006 benchmark descriptions. ACM SIGARCH Computer 
Architecture News, 34(4), 1-17. 
Hilty, L.M., Coroama, V., De Eicker, M.O., Ruddy, T., Müller, E., 2009. The role of ICT in 
energy consumption and energy efficiency. Report to the European Commission, DG 
INFSO, Project ICT ENSURE: European ICT Sustainability Research, Graz University, 
1, 1-60. https://www.researchgate.net/publication/267411194_The_Role_of_ICT_ 
in_Energy_Consumption_and_Energy_Efficiency . 
Huang, S., Huang, J., Dai, J., Xie, T., Huang, B., 2010. The HiBench benchmark suite: 
Characterization of the MapReduce-based data analysis. In: 2010 IEEE 26th 
International conference on data. 
International Standardization Organization (ISO). 2006. ISO 14040 Environmental 
management: Life cycle assessment: Principles and framework. Geneva, Switzerland: 
International Organization for Standardization. 
Jacobson, R., 1987. The validity of ROI as a measure of business performance[J]. Am. 
Econ. Rev. 77 (3), 470 – 478. https://www.jstor.org/stable/1804112 . 
Kawaguchi, S., Yachi, T., 2015. Adaptive power efficiency control by computer power 
consumption prediction using performance counters. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 52 (1), 
407 – 413 . 
Kawasaki, M., Kawamura, S., Tsukahara, M., Morita, S., Komiya, M., Natsuga, M., 2008. 
Near-infrared spectroscopic sensing system for on-line milk quality assessment in a 
milking robot. Comput. Electron. Agric. 63 (1), 22 – 27. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
compag.2008.01.006 . 
Kayad, A., Sozzi, M., Paraforos, D.S., et al., 2022. How many gigabytes per hectare are 
available in the digital agriculture era? A digitization footprint estimation[J]. 
Comput. Electron. Agric. 198, 107080 https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
compag.2022.107080 . 
Kitchenham, B.A., Pickard, L.M., MacDonell, S.G., Shepperd, M.J., 2001. What accuracy 
statistics really measure. IEE Proceedings-Software 148 (3), 81 – 85. https://doi.org/ 
10.1049/ip-sen:20010506 . 
Kranz, J., Zeiss, R., Beck, R., Gholami, R., Sarker, S., Watson, R.T., Whitley, E.A., 2022. 
Practicing what we preach? Reflections on more sustainable and responsible IS 
research and teaching practices. Commun. Assoc. Inf. Syst. 51 (1), 557 – 580. htt 
p://eprints.lse.ac.uk/id/eprint/116677 . 
L series, 2023. Environment and ICTs, climate change, e-waste, energy efficiency; 
construction, installation and protection of cables and other elements of outside 
plant L.1400-L.1499: Assessment methodologies of ICTs and CO2 trajectories. 
Lannelongue, L., Grealey, J., Inouye, M., 2021. Green algorithms: quantifying the carbon 
footprint of computation. Adv. Sci. 8 (12), 2100707. https://doi.org/10.1002/ 
advs.202100707 . 
Lannelongue, L., Inouye, M., 2023. Carbon footprint estimation for computational 
research. Nat. Rev. Methods Primers 3 (1), 9. https://doi.org/10.1038/s43586-023- 
00202-5 . 
Leiserson, C.E., Thompson, N.C., Emer, J.S., Kuszmaul, B.C., Lampson, B.W., Sanchez, D., 
Schardl, T.B., 2020. There ’ s plenty of room at the Top: What will drive computer 
performance after Moore ’ s law? Science 368 (6495), eaam9744. https://doi.org/ 
10.1126/science.aam9744 . 
Llama 3 Explore and build with Meta ’ s latest Llama 3 models on Vertex AI, 2024. https 
://console.cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/publishers/meta/model-garden/llama3?pli 
= 1 . 
Luque, A., Carrasco, A., Martín, A., de Las Heras, A., 2019. The impact of class imbalance 
in classification performance metrics based on the binary confusion matrix. Pattern 
Recogn. 91, 216 – 231. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2019.02.023 . 
Marinello, F., Bramley, R. G. V., Cohen, Y., Fountas, S., Guo, H., Karkee, M., et al., 2019. 
Agriculture and digital sustainability: a Digitization Footprint. In: Precision 
agriculture ’ 19 (pp. 83-89). Wageningen Academic. https://doi.org/10.3920/978 
-90-8686-888-9 . 
McGuinness, D.L., Van Harmelen, F., 2004. OWL web ontology language overview. W3C 
recommendation, 10(10), 2004. https://static.twoday.net/71desa1bif/files/W 
3C-OWL-Overview.pdf . 
Meadows, D.H., 1998. Indicators and information systems for sustainable development. 
https://donellameadows.org/wp-content/userfiles/IndicatorsInformation.pdf . 
Ohalete, N.C., Aderibigbe, A.O., Ani, E.C., Ohenhen, P.E., Daraojimba, D.O., Odulaja, B. 
A., 2023. AI-driven solutions in renewable energy: a review of data science 
applications in solar and wind energy optimization. World J. Adv. Res. Rev. 20 (3), 
401 – 417. https://doi.org/10.30574/wjarr.2023.20.3.2433 . 
Pan, S.L., Nishant, R., 2023. Artificial intelligence for digital sustainability: an insight 
into domain-specific research and future directions. Int. J. Inf. Manage. 72, 102668 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2023.102668 . 
PE INTERNATIONAL. GaBi Database website. Construction Materials exten-sion. 2015. 
http://www.gabi-software.com/support/gabi/gabi-database-2014-lci-documentati 
on/extension-database-xiv-construction-materials/ . 
Pezzuolo, A., Guo, H., Marchesini, G., et al., 2021. Digital technologies and automation 
in livestock production systems: a digital footprint from multisource data[C]. In: 
2021 IEEE International Workshop on Metrology for Agriculture and Forestry 
(MetroAgriFor). IEEE, pp. 258 – 262. https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
MetroAgriFor52389.2021.9628544 . 
PwC, 2017. Sizing the prize: What ’ s the real value of AI for your business and how can 
you capitalise?. https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/issues/analytics/assets/pwc-ai-ana 
lysis-sizing-the-prize-report.pdf . 
Recchioni, M., Mathieux, F., Goralczyk, M., & Schau, E. M. (2013). ILCD Data Network 
and ELCD Database: current use and further needs for supporting Environmental 
Footprint and Life Cycle Indicator Projects. Joint Research Centre, Ispra, Italy, 33. 
https://publications.jrc.ec.europa.eu/repository/bitstream/JRC78218/lb-na-25744 
-en-n.pdf . 
Richardson, J.K., 1987. MIPS: The good, the bad and the useful (No. NASA-CR-182893). 
https://ntrs.nasa.gov/citations/19880014800 . 
Rindfleisch, A., 2020. The second digital revolution. Mark. Lett. 31, 13 – 17. https://doi. 
org/10.1007/s11002-019-09509-4 . 
Robinson, J.T., Devarakonda, M.V., 1990. Data cache management using frequency- 
based replacement. In: Proceedings of the 1990 ACM SIGMETRICS conference on 
Measurement and modeling of computer systems, pp. 134-142. https://doi.org/ 
10.1145/98457.98523 . 
Swall0w, 2018. torchstat:Model analyzer in PyTorch. https://github.com/Swall0w/torch 
stat . 
Tsirogiannis, D., Harizopoulos, S., Shah, M.A., 2010. Analyzing the energy efficiency of a 
database server. In: Proceedings of the 2010 ACM SIGMOD International Conference 
on Management of data (pp. 231-242). https://doi.org/10.1145/1807167.1807194 . 
Wernet, G., Bauer, C., Steubing, B., Reinhard, J., Moreno-Ruiz, E., Weidema, B., 2016. 
The ecoinvent database version 3 (part I): overview and methodology. Int. J. Life 
Cycle Assess. 21, 1218 – 1230. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11367-016-1087-8 . 
Q. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
