TITLE: How to assess the digitization and digital effort: A framework for Digitization Footprint (Part 1)
DOI: 10.1016/j.compag.2024.109875

--- PAGE 1 ---
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 230 (2025) 109875
Available online 28 December 2024
0168-1699/© 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-
nc-nd/4.0/).
How to assess the digitization and digital effort: A framework for 
Digitization Footprint (Part 1)
☆
Qiang Huang
a , *
, Xu Wang
a
, Qi Gao
b
, Alberto Carraro
b
, Andrea Pezzuolo
b
,  
Francesco Marinello
b
a
College of Information Engineering, Sichuan Agricultural University, Yaan City, China
b
Department TeSAF, University of Padova, Legnaro, Padua, Italy
ARTICLE INFO
Keywords:
Digitization Footprint (DF)
Data Processing Unit (DPU)
Framework
Life Cycle Assessment (LCA)
Virtual environments (VE)
ABSTRACT
With the advancement of digitization, data is being collected, transmitted and used in a wide range of domains, 
and ICT estimates that by 2035, the world will have generated 180 ZB of data, and that in three hundred years ’ 
time, the number of bits generated worldwide may exceed the number of atoms on the planet, and virtual en -
vironments (VE) may become unsustainable. In this context, Digitization Footprint (DF) has been proposed to 
support the analysis of VE sustainability by parameterizing the amount of digital information. At present, the lack 
of methods for DF evaluation has led to the fact that the current research on DF only stays in the quantification of 
data volume, and does not quantify the time, effort (costs invested for data storage, processing or transfer). To 
address this problem, this paper proposes a DF-LCA framework based on Data Processing Units (DPUs), through 
which the DF of an information system can be scientifically and completely quantified. Considering the 
complexity of the information system ’ s internal situation (data transfer, module coupling), it is a challenge to 
monitor the internal data as well as the metrics. Therefore, by abstracting the information system ’ s data 
manipulation process into a DPU, which is a logical unit, it is possible to obtain the information system ’ s DF by 
monitoring it from the outside without having to study the information system ’ s complex interior, which greatly 
simplifies the difficulty of quantifying the DF. In reality, data may be processed multiple times, and the pro -
cessing may be distributed over multiple DPUs, and quantifying the DF of a single DPU does not fully satisfy the 
needs of DF assessment. To address this problem, this paper improves the LCA to DF-LCA by defining the to -
pology between DPUs, clarifying the network relationship of data transmission from DPU to DPU, and finally 
obtaining the data link of the output data. Finally the DPUs on the data link of this data are monitored with 
indicators, and the DF of this data can be obtained. In order to solve the problem of transmission error on the 
link, this paper is based on the existing LCA method, and improves the data bloodline in the big data, which 
achieves the function of tracking the data transmission problem on the link. In addition, this paper optimizes the 
hierarchical structure of LCA to make it more applicable to the analysis of DPU topology results of information 
systems, and finally integrates the three dimensions of performance, energy consumption and value into the 
index system of DF-LCA. Through the above methods, this paper establishes a generic DF assessment framework 
and provides basic model support for DF standardization.
1. Introduction
In 1946, the birth of ENIAC (Electronic Numerical Integrator and 
Computer), the first electronic computer, marked a key moment in 
human history, marking the entry of mankind into the era of digital 
technology. Since that time, digital electronic technologies have 
powered an extraordinary revolution that is revolutionizing how infor -
mation is stored, processed and transmitted. Digitization has seen un -
precedented acceleration over the years, creating exponential data 
generation rates globally ( Tihinen et al., 2016 ). Today, digitization is 
continuing at an unprecedented rate and the amount of data generated 
globally is exploding. Information and Communication Technology 
☆
This article is part of a special issue entitled: ‘Sust. Agri. 4.0 ’ published in Computers and Electronics in Agriculture.
* Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: huangqiang@sicau.edu.cn (Q. Huang), wangxu409@stu.sicau.edu.cn (X. Wang), qi.gao@studenti.unipd.it (Q. Gao), alberto.carraro.11@phd. 
unipd.it (A. Carraro), andrea.pezzuolo@unipd.it (A. Pezzuolo), francesco.marinello@unipd.it (F. Marinello). 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture
journal homep age: www. elsevier.com/ locate/comp ag
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2024.109875
Received 1 October 2024; Received in revised form 2 December 2024; Accepted 22 December 2024  

--- PAGE 2 ---
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 230 (2025) 109875
2
(ICT) ( Petroc Taylor, 2023 )estimates that the world will generate 180 ZB 
of data by 2025, and assuming a growth rate of 20 per cent, more bits 
will be generated than all the atoms of the Earth between now and 2350 
years from now ( Vopson, 2020 ).
However, there is a growing debate about whether the digital re -
sources needed to store, process, and transmit this burgeoning volume of 
data can keep up with its rapid growth. Marinello et al. addressed this 
concern by framing it as an issue of virtual environment (VE) sustain -
ability (Marinello et al., 2016). VE sustainability aims to achieve longer 
term benefits and impacts in the digitization process by maintaining VE 
with as few resources as possible.
To address the issue of VE sustainability, Marinello et al. also pro -
posed the concept of Digitization Footprint (DF). DF refers to the cost, 
time, and volume of data generated by the processes of storing, trans -
ferring, and processing data in the VE (Marinello et al., 2016). Param -
eterizing the resources consumed by the digitization process through DF 
can provide data support for VE sustainability. However, the current 
challenge is the lack of a framework system to quantify DF.
Based on the definition of the DF concept, we are able to analyze the 
carriers of data (devices, software, services, etc.) to get a basic picture of 
DF. For instance, the authors have quantified the data volume from the 
perspective of DF for devices in a test field and predicted the future 
growth of data in that area ( Kayad et al., 2022 ). Similarly, the author 
applied the generic framework proposed by Marinello et al. to a digital 
dairy farm, identifying the devices and related technologies that 
generate the farm’s data ( Marinello et al., 2019, Pezzuolo et al., 2021 ,). 
While these studies offer insights into DF in terms of data sources or 
volumes, a scientific and comprehensive quantification of DF remains 
elusive due to the lack of a robust assessment system.
In the original study of DF, the authors suggested further research 
into the application of LCA to analyze VE based on the internal resource 
consumption of the virtual environment or external inputs and outputs. 
LCA is a standardized methodology used to assess, both quantitatively 
and systematically, the impacts on resources and the environment across 
a product’s life cycle ( ISO, 2006 ). In different areas, the LCA model is 
adapted to different applications and objectives, e.g. approaches to 
sustainability assessment include Sustainability Appraisal, Material 
Flow Analysis (MFA), etc. ( Bond et al., 2012; Graedel, 2019 ). In contrast 
to other sustainability assessment methods like MFA and Sustainability 
Appraisal, LCA typically concentrates on environmental impacts, while 
other methods focus on domain-specific sustainability assessments.
Traditional LCA methods encounter several challenges when applied 
directly to VE due to key differences in assessment objectives and the 
relationship between the environment and the analyzed object. Tradi -
tional LCA is designed to assess the environmental impact of a product 
throughout its life cycle, with a focus on the inputs and outputs that 
affect the environment. On the other hand, the goal of DF is to quantify 
the capacity and capability of the VE. Additionally, in traditional LCA, 
the analyzed object is separate from the environment, necessitating the 
consideration of environmental influences. In contrast, DF analysis en -
compasses not just the software but also the VE that hosts the software, 
intertwining the object of analysis with its environment. These differ -
ences in analysis goals and relationship dynamics make traditional LCA 
unsuitable for VE.
To address the above issues, this paper proposes a DF-LCA frame -
work for evaluating the DF of information systems in VE. Through DF- 
LCA, the DF of an information system can be analyzed more deeply to 
obtain detailed information about the DF and its impact on VE. In the 
DF-LCA framework, this paper defines DPU and their topologies to 
describe the precise paths and processes of data flow. We optimize the 
level of LCA to make it more suitable for VE and propose a method for 
constructing data lineage eigenvalues, which will help trace the data and 
reduce the errors of DF in the detection process. The three dimensions of 
performance, energy consumption, and value are further integrated into 
the DF-LCA metrics system, which can evaluate DF more comprehen -
sively than the previous evaluation steps and methods. By constructing 
the DF evaluation system, we propose a generic DF evaluation frame -
work, which provides a basic model to support the standardization of 
DF. The ultimate goal of this study is to provide model support for the 
standardization of DF to facilitate the efficient management and opti -
mization of data flow in information systems. This paper is followed by a 
second work, which is mostly focused on the systematized definition of 
indicators that constitute the reference for the quantification of the 
digitization contribution ( Huang et al., 2024 ).
2. Method
From the physical level, a VE is a topological network consisting of 
multiple nodes; from the functional level, a VE is composed of many 
intertwined data links. No matter from which aspect, VE is a complex 
system, in order to incorporate these two levels into the analysis and 
simplify the difficulty of analysis, this paper abstracts the data pro -
cessing process in VE as DPU, which is an abstract logical unit, and by 
analyzing the whole process of data processing, we finally obtain the 
data lifecycle model based on DPU. At the same time, in order to analyze 
VE completely, we need to pay attention to the resources consumed by 
the data during its lifecycle, and finally provide a data base for the 
sustainable analysis of VE. However, in practice, without limiting the 
granularity, the definition of DPU is quite vague, which leads to the 
possibility of incomplete and missing data lifecycle, therefore, this paper 
introduces the topological definition of hierarchy and DPU, the hierar -
chy can clarify the specific granularity, and the topology makes the data 
flow more clear, both of which make the analysis of the data lifecycle 
become clear and complete.
The LCA framework is divided into four steps: identification of ob -
jectives and scope, inventory analysis, impact assessment, and life cycle 
interpretation. The DF-LCA framework is similar to the LCA framework, 
but the process of establishing the data life cycle is different; DF-LCA 
focuses more on the impact of VEs, and the process of calculating the 
indicators is related to the way indicators for VE are calculated. Com -
parison of the DF-LCA’s framework with the LCA framework is shown in 
Fig. 1 shows that the left figure is the framework of LCA ( Ouellet-Pla -
mondon and Habert, 2015a; Ouellet-Plamondon and Habert, 2015b ) 
and the right figure is the framework of DF-LCA.
The Goal and Scope: This phase mainly focuses on clarifying the 
research objectives and research targets of DF-LCA, defining DPU, and 
determining the boundaries of the assessment. Based on the assessment 
objectives, the hierarchical structure of DPU, DPU topology, and data 
links are established. Among them, it is also necessary to analyze the 
integrity of the links and select the corresponding DF dataset of the DPU.
Inventory Analysis: At this step of DF-LCA, gathering and calculating 
indicators with the goal of quantifying and computing metrics related to 
DPU on data links requires collecting relevant scalar values within 
defined time periods, standardizing indicators by allocating them unit 
data units, then aggregate indicators per DPU within each link before 
visualizing using appropriate methods to facilitate understanding and 
analysis.
Impact assessment: In DF-LCA’s impact evaluation phase, results 
from inventory analysis are used to analyze their effect on VE. This 
assessment takes place through using relationship indicators of DPU 
against reference indicators to measure impact in order to ascertain any 
impacts related to them on VE.
Interpretation: The DF-LCA process entails an exhaustive analysis, 
from goal and scope definition through inventory evaluation and impact 
evaluation to impact analysis. Each phase is meticulously planned in 
order to gain an in-depth knowledge and assessment of data processing 
within VE. Once complete, a final report summarizes findings and in -
sights gleaned during every stage, providing a thorough evaluation of DF 
impact in terms of sustainability of VE. The difference between the two 
is shown in the Table1 below:
The main approaches of DF-LCA and LCA frameworks and the cor -
responding elements in DF-LCA are included in Table 1 . The DF-LCA 
Q. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  

--- PAGE 3 ---
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 230 (2025) 109875
3
framework is the result of improvements based on the LCA framework. 
In contrast, the unit process in LCA is replaced with DPU and the pro -
cessing of data in VE in DPU is analyzed.
3. Modeling
This section focuses on the model definition of the DF-LCA method. 
Fig. 2 depicts the steps involved with DF-LCA. The process starts by 
outlining data lifecycle goals and scope definition. This initial stage 
includes the establishment of the DPU, segmentation levels and repre -
sentation of topology of DPU. After creating its topological structure, an 
inventory analysis on data links in this topology takes place. This 
analysis considers data lineage characteristics and metrics to quantify 
VE resources consumed when producing information, in turn providing 
an estimate of DF. Furthermore, this phase requires gathering the met -
rics collected into aggregate and visual format for further review and 
Fig. 1. Illustrates the df-lca framework alongside the traditional lca framework. in the phase of defining goals and scope, df-lca undertakes life cycle modeling based 
on the dpu, analyzes information systems through various levels, and incorporates the topology definition of dpu, data lineage, among other elements. it also includes 
indicators pertinent to the virtual environment. in contrast, lca bases its approach on the processing unit of a product, determining the product life cycle through 
defined boundaries and encompassing indicators relevant to the actual environment. left image from ( Ouellet-Plamondon and Habert, 2015a; Ouellet-Plamondon and 
Habert, 2015b ).
Table 1 
The difference between LCA and DF-LCA.
LCA DF-LCA
Processing unit Unit process DPU
Environments Physical environment Virtual environments
Functional unit Unit products, services, etc. Unit data
Life cycle Product lifecycle Data life cycle
Input Materials, Physical 
Environment Resources
Data, virtual environment 
element resources
Output Products, production by- 
products, waste, etc.
Data
Inventory 
analysis
Data collection (materials), 
data calculation
Metrics collection, indicator 
calculation
Impact 
assessment
Potential environmental 
impacts
Virtual Environment 
Sustainability, Accuracy
Fig. 2. Steps based on DF-LCA framework: Based on the DF-LCA framework, the DF-LCA evaluation steps are DPU definition, level analysis, topology analysis, data 
life cycle analysis, data lineage collection, parameter collection, parameter processing, and uncertainty analysis.
Q. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  

--- PAGE 4 ---
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 230 (2025) 109875
4
visualization.
Impact assessment marks the final step of the DF-LCA process and 
evaluates both individual DPU as well as collective effects in VE. This 
comprehensive approach ensures a deep comprehension and quantifi -
cation of data processing resources in VE; contributing towards more 
sustainable and efficient management of digital resources.
3.1. DPU definition
In the generic data framework formulated by Marinello et al., entities 
such as sensors, devices, terminals, etc., constitute the main body of the 
generic data framework. Although the internal structure of different 
devices may vary, as a whole, the functional attributes of these devices 
are the same; they are all a unit that outputs data or store data. There -
fore, this paper defines these structures with the same functional attri -
butes as Data Processing Unit (DPU), within which data is processed, 
stored, created, and captured, and which generate data by consuming 
VE resources or store data by consuming VE resources. Bj ø rn, A. et al. 
talk about the main characteristics of LCA, ’ In all applications the 
assessment takes a life cycle perspective having the function of the 
studied entity as a focal point, ’ ( Bj ø rn et al., 2018 ) so LCA is a model that 
dumbs down the internal structure. So, when we carry out the study of 
DF, we do not need to study the details of the internal structure of the 
DPU, and we can get the output DF by monitoring the inputs (data, VE 
resources) external to the DPU. This paper defines the logical unit in 
which the data is processed, stored, created, and collected. In other 
operations, such as the DPU and through the DPU, we only pay attention 
to the inputs and outputs of the DPU itself and the resources consumed, 
which can provide a more straightforward and more effective analysis 
and determination of DF concerns.
When evaluating a DPU, it is important to concentrate on key in -
formation, including the specific details of the DPU and content relevant 
to DF. Consequently, a DPU is defined in the form of a set, as follows: 
DPU = {Id, Name, Type, U{Output, {Inputs}}, U{Processes}, U{In -
dicators}, U{Context}, U{Subnodes}}. This definition includes individ -
ual information about the DPU, a set of subnodes, processes, indicators, 
context, and the input set corresponding to its output, as depicted in 
Fig. 3 .
The attributes “ Id ” , “ Name ” , and “ Type ” in a DPU are crucial for 
providing unique identification, as they record the sequence, name, and 
type of the DPU. The component “ U{Output, {Inputs}} ” signifies the 
output and the corresponding set of inputs. This output includes the data 
type and quantity, mirroring the inputs. It ’ s important to note that not 
all devices have both input and output. For example, in the generic 
framework, a data source may only have output, without input. In such 
cases, data is generated without input and is later stored in devices like 
memory, where it then acts as input without output during the storage 
phase.
The set of data information operations is defined as “ U{Processes} =
{Computing, Create, Storage … } ” . This element defines the operations a 
DPU performs on data information. For instance, wireless sensor 
networks (WSN) and global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) engage 
in data generation and collection. Meanwhile, distributed systems and 
cloud services undertake operations like computation and storage on 
data. One DPU may encompass various data information operations. For 
instance, data may be produced by sensors in an actual test field and 
processed prior to being stored into memory within its DPU; including 
creation, processing, and storage functions all as one operation within 
that single DPU.
“ U{Context} ” captures the context of each DPU by recording hard -
ware details, and any relevant information relevant for inventory anal -
ysis. It can be defined as U{Context} = Hardware and VE “ to represent 
both types of hardware that make up each DPU as well as storage ca -
pacity information such as read frequencies or utilization rates amongst 
other features that contribute towards effective inventory analysis.
“ U{Indicators} ” denote the set of indicators used for evaluating DPU. 
These indicators are determined by evaluation goals and context of DPU, 
playing an essential part in measuring its sustainability for VE.
“ U{Subnodes} ” represents a collection of sub-DPU within a DPU. In 
scenarios where a DPU comprises multiple subsystems, such as in a 
complex field experiment, the DPU for the experiment includes a 
Subnodes set, which consists of the DPU of these systems. These Subn -
odes possess all the attributes of a node: “ Subnodes = {Id, Name, Type, 
{Input, Output}, {Processes}, {Indicators}, Subnodes} ” , representing a 
more detailed level of data processing and closely related to the level 
definition of DPU.
3.2. Level definition of DPU
In LCA, based on the original scope of the product, the assessment 
objective of the product at the company level reports the critical envi -
ronmental issues of the product. In contrast, at the sustainable con -
sumption and production area level, LCA helps to study the 
identification of critical areas of consumption and drivers of environ -
mental impacts (Stefanie et al., 2014). Accordingly, in DF-LCA, based on 
the same DPU, under different assessment objectives, the data can pre -
sent the characteristics of the corresponding assessment objective at 
different levels. The DPU definition contains the set of subnodes, which 
represents the subset of DPUs that make up the DPU, and the DPU- 
specific functionality is required to be assessed under different assess -
ment objectives. In contrast, the DPU ontology may not have the gran -
ularity to assess that assessment goal, and it needs to be assessed based 
on the corresponding functions of the subset DPUs. In this paper, DPUs 
with the same function and granularity are classified at the same level. 
Without an evaluation target, there is no way to define the DPUs that 
constitute a subset of DPUs because the degree of abstraction (granu -
larity size) of the subset of DPU is not specified.
At the same level, the type of DPUs is consistent. Through the tiers, 
the composition of DPU subsets of DPUs at different granularities can be 
clarified. Analyzing the top-level DPUs from top to bottom can obtain a 
subset of DPUs from large to small granularity, and we can select the 
corresponding layer according to the evaluation objective of DF and 
Fig. 3. DPU definition.
Q. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  

--- PAGE 5 ---
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 230 (2025) 109875
5
define the topology of DPUs for the subset of DPUs in it. For example, in 
the DF analysis of a piece of experimental field, when analyzing the 
amount of data generated by this experimental field, we can firstly take 
the experimental field as the top-level DPU, and then abstract the in -
formation systems in the whole experimental field to DPUs, and by 
analyzing the change of the data volume of DPUs of the information 
systems in the experimental field, we can get the amount of data 
generated by the piece of experimental field. If the experimental field is 
divided into levels, Level 1 is the experimental field DPU and Level 2 is 
the information system DPU, based on this, we can know that levels are 
the constraints for dividing different granularities.
3.3. Topology definition of DPU
The data of an information system is interconnected with the help of 
network devices, and in the Level of an information system, the data is 
transmitted among various systems, which makes the DPUs in the Level 
also present a very complex information interaction relationship. Data 
usually flows through multiple DPUs to get the final output, and if only 
the output data of a single DPU is quantified by DF, it is not a complete 
representation of the overall DF characteristics of an information sys -
tem. Therefore, this study introduces the graph topology into an archi -
tecture containing multiple DPUs to ensure a comprehensive analysis of 
DF characteristics.
In communication networks, the author introduced graph theory to 
analyze communication networks, which can effectively express the 
transmission of the network by considering the various devices in the 
network as nodes that are graphs, and the links transmitting data as 
edges of the graph( Barnes and Harary,1983 ); In a study of software 
rehabilitation, Fosdick using graph-theoretic analysis of data flows for 
full program optimization (Fosdick, L. D. et al,.1976). Similarly, based 
on the DPU abstraction described above, we can also view DPUs as nodes 
to introduce graph theory into the DPU topology. In a DF system, the 
data transmission between DPU units can be represented by a directed 
graph to represent the network topology relationship corresponding to 
its information system. According to the definition of DPU in Section 
3.3.1, the set of DPUs can be viewed as the set of vertices of a graph, and 
the logical connection structure of its inputs and outputs can be viewed 
as the directed transmission edges of DPU data, then the DPU topology 
can be defined as shown in Eqs. (1) – (3) : 
G = ( V , E ) (1) 
V = { DPU
1
, DPU
2
, ..., DPU
N
} (2) 
E ⊆ V × V (3) 
In the above definition, V represents the set of vertices (the DPU 
nodes of the layer), N is the number of DPU nodes, and E represents the 
directed edge of the graph (the directed communication path between 
DPU).
3.4. Data link definition
The topology of the DPU delineates the network structure of the 
information system, representing the logical data transmission re -
lationships between various DPU. However, it cannot be directly applied 
to analyze complex directed graph networks. In the context of DF 
analysis for an information system, the entire topology can be dissected 
based on the specific analysis of data output, allowing for the identifi -
cation of corresponding DPU nodes. By tracing upstream nodes through 
their inputs, a subgraph of the DPU topology is obtained, which is 
defined in this paper as a data link. This data link clarifies the trans -
mission and consumption process of a DF data result within the DPU 
topology, aiding in determining the lifecycle characteristics of the data. 
In DF analysis, the data lifecycle encompasses the entire journey from 
data generation to its final output. This lifecycle approach enables an 
assessment of the impact of DF on the VE during the data generation 
process.
From a graphical perspective, the data link G
DL 
for a specific DPU can 
be considered a directed acyclic subgraph of the topology in which the 
DPU resides. The output of this DPU acts as the output for the link, while 
the outputs of its upstream nodes form the data traceability for this 
output. The definition of this concept is elaborated in Eqs. (4) – (7) : 
G
DL
⊆ G (4) 
G
DL
= { V
ʹ
, E
ʹ
} (5) 
V
ʹ
= { DPU
output
} ∪ { d ∈ V : ∃ d
1
, ..., d
k
∈ V . ∀ i = 1 , ... k   1 . ( d
i
, d
i + 1
) ∈ E , d
1
= d , d
k
= DPU
output
}
(6) 
E
ʹ
= {( d , d
ʹ
) ∈ E : d , d
ʹ
∈ V
ʹ
} (7) 
Where DPU
output 
represents the DPU corresponding to the output, that 
is, the node corresponding to the DF data to be observed, G represents 
the topology graph where node DPU
output 
is located, and V ’ is a subset of 
V, including only the output node DPU
output 
and its N upstream nodes. 
The set E ’ is a subset consisting only of the edges of E connecting the 
nodes of V ’ .
Utilizing the modeling approach for the data lifecycle that in -
corporates DPU, level, topology, and data link, we can apply lifecycle 
modeling to the reference data framework proposed by Marinello et al 
( Marinello et al.,2019 ). This reference framework describes the inte -
gration of three data-intensive technologies in agriculture, encompass -
ing three primary data lifecycles: Data source, Using devices, and 
Repository.
Data source: This is the origin of data generation, including various 
sensors, the travel trajectories of vehicles, location information gener -
ated by GNSS, and other information sources.
Using devices: These are devices that receive data and are respon -
sible for representation, synthesis, or decision-making. Examples 
include personal computers, edge computing devices, mobile phones, 
and industrial equipment.
Repository: This refers to locations where various data is stored, such 
as different cloud services, traditional disk storage, etc.
According to this proposed data lifecycle modeling approach, the 
devices in this framework can be abstracted as DPU. At a general 
framework level, a communication topology of device DPU is estab -
lished. The framework and its topology are shown in Fig. 4 .
In the presence of a system composed of sensors, PCs, mobile phones, 
industrial equipment, and other devices, cloud services, and hardware 
drivers, the system ’ s topology can be represented at the general 
framework level. In this case, the evaluated boundary can be expressed 
as the system DPU included in the System level. At the System level, by 
selecting the data output from the PC for data link analysis, the lifecycle 
model of that data can be obtained, as shown in the Data link section of 
the diagram.
3.5. Data lineage
According to section 3.4 data links represent a subgraph of the DPU 
topology, this research uses a depth-first search algorithm for data links, 
which can obtain a collection of paths of data links, which represents the 
data source and processing of each input data of the output result of the 
link, i.e., the Data Lineage of that data. Through Data Lineage, we are 
able to assess the Data Lineage technique consists of two main factors: 
objects, which can be devices, programs, etc., and inter-object re -
lationships, which refer to the specific changes in the data as it is 
transferred between objects( Cui et al.,2000,Patel et al.,2020 ).The data 
tracking can be accomplished by recording the changes in the data, 
which include the changes in the amount of data as well as the changes 
Q. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
